The young man, he received his assignment, and it was not for the faint of heart.
He would have to tell the desolation of cherished cities, the burning of Jehovah's temple,
the captivity of his people, and for delivering these messages, which they were not easy,
he would endure scathing and murderous attempts on his life.
Now on top of that, he would experience moments of discouragement, isolation, self-doubt.
When receiving his assignment, this young man said, Jehovah, I cannot do this.
I'm just a boy.
The boy was from Anifath, and his name was Jeremiah.
So what would help him be successful with this assignment?
It would be following and taking to heart the very points that Brother Flegal brought
out about faith.
He would need deep abiding faith and trust in Jehovah.
And in addition to that, he would need to learn how to march.
Jeremiah was ready to enter the front lines of the battle.
The battle to defend pure worship against those who hate it.
And like any good soldier, one of the first things you learn is how to march.
Now marching is more challenging than mere walking.
Marching requires determination.
It requires stamina, endurance, and to keep moving forward in a regular steady step.
And as Jeremiah entered this battle, he would need to learn how to march.
What would help him?
Recalling what was written in God's words, centuries before his time.
Words recorded at Deuteronomy chapter 31 and verse 6.
I want to read these words to you.
These words were so important to Jeremiah.
The context was when Moses was encouraging confidence in Jehovah.
The nation of Israel was ready to enter into the promised land.
They would face enemies.
They would face a fight, a battle.
But look what Moses says in verse 6 of Deuteronomy 31.
Be courageous and strong.
Do not be afraid or struck with terror before them.
Or Jehovah, your God is the one marching with you.
He's marching with you.
He will neither desert or abandon you.
So how did Jehovah march alongside this boy?
At Jeremiah chapter 1 and verse 8, Jehovah tells Jeremiah,
do not be afraid because of their appearance.
For I am with you to save you.
Don't be afraid.
In other words, when a person marches with Jehovah, you see Jehovah marches with him,
boosting him along, making him strong.
It's as if Jehovah told Jeremiah, don't worry, you just come and march with me.
And for the next 67 years, that's exactly what Jeremiah did.
In Jehovah's strength, think about what happened.
In Jehovah's strength, Jeremiah preached to hard-hearted people, including wicked kings,
corrupt priests, apostates.
He did it.
And as he marched, he saw Jehovah march with him.
He was conscious of that fact.
Jehovah saved him when imprisoned in a dungeon.
Jehovah supplied him a daily ration of food during a famine.
Jehovah rescued him from a cistern.
You see, this is real.
This was tangible.
This was concrete.
It wasn't made up.
Jehovah was marching with him.
And as Jeremiah saw Jehovah's support, it strengthened him.
It gave him more confidence.
And Jehovah marched with him.
And then, Jeremiah was ready then for the next trial.
Why do we bring this up?
Because your situation is very similar to Jeremiah's household.
Along with your Gilead training, you are being put on the front lines.
You're going to be asked to defend pure worship, maybe like you never have before.
So we want you to stay in the battle.
We want you to keep marching.
For example, what if in your assignment opposition turns into outright persecution?
Or what if in your branch territory you face a political upheaval or war?
What if you need to risk your lives to provide relief like our brothers in and around Ukraine
are doing?
What if that happens?
Your brothers will be looking to you as an example.
Will you be able to set that example?
Can you maintain that example?
Yes, you can.
Because when you march with Jehovah, now listen carefully.
When you march with Jehovah, he does something very special for you in moments of weakness.
Well, consider what happened to Jeremiah.
At one point it got so bad he wanted to quit.
I'm quitting.
Jeremiah, chapter 20, verse 9.
I'm not going to mention Jehovah's name.
I'm not going to talk about it anymore.
I'm discouraged.
I'm tired.
I'm exhausted.
I'm going to stop marching.
He was losing his focus.
So how does Jehovah help him?
What did Jehovah do?
Did he say, well, Jeremiah, that's it.
If you're going to be exhausted, I'll find another prophet.
No, Jehovah did not do that.
What did Jehovah do?
And this is a thought we want you to take to heart.
Jeremiah, chapter 20, and verse 11, how does Jehovah help him to keep marching?
But Jehovah was with me, like a, what, friend, like a brother?
No, no, no, like a fearsome warrior.
So in what way did Jehovah prove to be a fearsome warrior, a mighty soldier standing right
at Jeremiah's side?
How did Jehovah do that?
Well, what happens in battle?
When a soldier sees a fellow soldier's thumbel and fall, what does he do?
He rushes to his side.
He supports him.
He grabs him.
They go together, wraps his arm around him, and they move to safety together.
This is what Jehovah did for Jeremiah.
In fact, Jeremiah tells us this in chapter 20 and in verse 7, what does Jeremiah say?
He experienced this.
He says, you used your strength against me and you prevail.
You used your strength against me.
What does that mean?
Jehovah used his strength against Jeremiah's weakness, seeing Jehovah do this for him time
and again, time and again, enabled Jeremiah to accomplish what he could have never accomplished
on his own.
This is the point we're making for you.
And all of these experience, strength, and it transformed his natural shyness, his feelings
of inadequacy, his lack of confidence into iron-like boldness.
Jehovah was with him like a fearsome warrior.
Jehovah loved the commission he gave Jeremiah.
He was working with Jeremiah to fulfill this commission.
It was precious to Jehovah, just like your commission.
It's precious to Jehovah.
So you can be assured that Jehovah is going to do the same for you.
We want you to have that confidence.
In fact, one sister, who not long ago graduated from Gilead, experienced this first hand.
Shortly after arriving in her assignment, she was arrested.
Our sister was held captive in a dungeon-like prison.
And during that time, she was given meager rations of food and was subjected to painful, prolonged punishment.
How was she able to endure?
How could she stay strong?
How by marching with Jehovah?
And she never lost sight of the fact that she was part of an army of marchers.
She was marching with the fearsome warrior.
In fact, this is what she said, thinking about my Gilead classmates
and visualizing their faces gave me power.
I kept their smiling faces in front of me.
I imagined where each class made sad, each row from left to right, front to back.
I recalled where they were from, what work they did in their assignments.
This made the time go by quickly and I felt no physical pain at all.
I sang in my head, kingdom songs.
The song I sang the most was Jehovah's Your Name.
Another song that touched my heart deeply was song number 38.
He will make you strong.
I made that song more personal by replacing the pronoun you with me.
This song helped me never to give up.
I had no Bible.
So each day I meditated on Bible teaching such as everlasting life and paradise and a resurrection hope.
These meditations gave me deep inner joy and a calm that cannot be described.
At times I thought about the possibility of facing death,
but the fear of death did not consume me.
Yes, she thought about the possibility of facing death,
The fearsome warrior Jehovah was marching with her.
No prison walls, no bars can block Jehovah from marching with her.
And our sister was recently released from prison.
So whatever your trials, we don't know what trials you're going to face.
You don't know, we don't know.
But reflect on how Jehovah supports you, stay in the battle.
And when you reflect on Jehovah, how Jehovah supports you, it's tangible, it's real, it's concrete.
Think about that, Jehovah will never stop marching with you.
And remember, you are a part of a large army.
You're not alone.
Therefore, when you see a fellow worshipper struggling, don't ignore them.
Help them, not to fall behind.
Help them.
You're part of an army.
You've been trained to do this.
That's what school taught you.
Not to be independent, but to be interdependent.
Not independent, interdependent with your brothers and sisters.
That's your job.
Be quick to help them back up, keep marching with Jehovah.
And although you don't know what challenges lie ahead,
you are prepared.
So with your marching orders in hand, be courageous and strong.
Knowing that each trial you face, each trial you endure,
will make you stronger for the next one.
Be confident, you'll always have the fearsome warrior,
the mighty soldier marching by your side.
He's there, Jehovah.
So now go.
Wherever the battle may take you, go.
And be determined to fulfill your commission to support your brothers,
as you march on with Jehovah.